Security professionals are always thinking
about vulnerabilities. It's how
we stay ahead of threats.
We've spent some time together exploring
a couple forms of encryption.
The two types we've discussed
produce keys that are shared
when communicating information.
Encryption keys are vulnerable
to being lost or stolen,
which can lead to sensitive
information at risk.
Let's explore another security control
that helps companies address this
weakness.
A hash function is an algorithm that
produces a code that can't be decrypted.
Unlike asymmetric and
symmetric algorithms,
hash functions are one-way processes
that do not generate decryption keys.
Instead, these algorithms produce a unique
identifier known as a hash value, or
digest.
Here's an example to demonstrate this.
Imagine a company has an internal
application that is used by employees and
is stored in a shared drive.
After passing through a hashing function,
the program receives its hash value.
For example purposes,
we created this relatively short hash
value with the MD5 hashing function.
Generally, standard hash functions that
produce longer hashes are preferred for
being more secure.
Next, let's imagine an attacker
replaces the program
with a modified version that
performs malicious actions.
The malicious program may
work like the original.
However, if so much as one line of
code is different from the original,
it will produce a different hash value.
By comparing the hash values, we can
validate that the programs are different.
Attackers use tricks like this often
because they're easily overlooked.
Fortunately, hash values help us identify
when something like this is happening.
In security, hashes
are primarily used as a way to
determine the integrity of files and
applications.
Data integrity relates to the accuracy and
consistency of information.
This is known as non-repudiation,
the concept that authenticity
of information can't be denied.
Hash functions are important security
controls that make proven data integrity
possible. Analysts use them frequently.
One way to do this is by finding
the hash value of files or
applications and comparing them
against known malicious files.
For example, we can use the Linux command
line to generate the hash value for
any file on your computer.
We just launch a shell and type the name
of the hashing algorithm we want to use.
In this case, we're using
a common one known as sha256.
Next, we need to enter the file
name of any file we want to hash.
Let's hash the contents of newfile.txt.
Now, we'll press Enter.
The terminal generates this
unique hash value for the file.
These tools can be compared with
the hash values of known online viruses.
One such database is VirusTotal.
This is a popular tool among security
practitioners that's useful for analyzing
suspicious files, domains,
IPs, and URLs.
As we've explored, even the slightest
change in input results in a totally
different hash value.
Hash functions are intentionally designed
this way to assist with matters of non-repudiation.
They equip computers with a quick and
easy way to compare input and output
values and validate data integrity.
Pretty cool, right?